Haddouk: Hello. So let's now talk about some transnational aspects and consideration which has to be have to be taken here and what I call a risk factors that has to be have to be considered.
Haddouk: Because these factors might increase the concern we have in transitioning from the preclinical to the clinical studies. And for this, there is a very good
Haddouk: Published work by Governor on 2008 you can refer to it. For more details, but I give you a summary and
Haddouk: There is a distinction to have between what we would call
Haddouk: And high risk therapeutic so we can first understand, have a good understanding what is the difference. And this can be done based on different aspects that start with the mode of action.
Haddouk: So typically, if you have another, of course, diabetic, it's, it will be of higher risk. Definitely. Then if you work with a follow up agent or known democratic targets.
Haddouk: Of course, high risk traffic six are diabetics with a poorly understanding of the mechanism.
Haddouk: If your target has limited physiological interactions, then it's between more be classified as the standard as a standard therapeutics
Haddouk: Compared to the higher risk diabetics, with a little tropic and the systemic activity bypass which can over run physiological control which might generate more risks.
Haddouk: Of course, any compound which has a potential for amplification or surprisingly our
Haddouk: Response. We will because you have higher risk compared to a more target in area sampling and dose response, which is more
Haddouk: Standing in the stone data therapeutics area and say,
Haddouk: And last one and we're pleased as we said before, it's very good to have biomarkers and easily monitored.
Haddouk: Pharmacology and Toxicology with the defined and validated by markers. If you are lacking this biomarkers for to follow the effects in terms of pharmacology of toxicology, so it makes the case more difficult and classify better protect more in the high risk area.
Haddouk: Last but not least, neither if you have any finding that you have seen in the toxicology studies and if that finding was reversible. Of course, it's more easily manageable and the light
Haddouk: Compared to the fact if if it was irreversible. If there is a minimum possible irreversible toxicity, then that therapeutic is of high risk compared to the reversible effects.
Haddouk: If we consider the nature of the target.
Haddouk: If you have
Haddouk: Compounds with good specificity than
Haddouk: The target or the disease. If it's easy. The more much more easy manageable.
Haddouk: If the target is non critical and has redundancy. So the risk is lower than if it's a poorly understood mechanism regarding the targets.
Haddouk: And of course target reads, which has limited physiological interaction is have less risk and then
Haddouk: For the the animal models and there are elements of they have also to be considered for this assessment.
Haddouk: Is your compound has to be classified as high risk or standard risk. Of course, if you have a good stricter homology for your
Haddouk: target distribution and senior in pathway between your animal model and what to expect for from
Haddouk: Human then you are more in a standard area. If you have a very poor understanding or very poor structure or morphology between the target distribution and signalling pathways between on non clinical and your clinical study
Haddouk: spacies which is the human and therefore the risk might be considered definitely higher
Haddouk: One thing is the interaction and the and the district target expression. And one thing is the pharmacological effect if it is comparable between the mice, let's say, and and the model in etc and what you expect from what you see you for much, you know, under human
Haddouk: Pharmacological expected affecting human the best
Haddouk: This is comparable, the better. This is incompatible and the lower risk you have for assessment.
Haddouk: And
Haddouk: Are the model that you use well established already and are they proven for the predictive or they're considered predictive
Haddouk: If it is the case, and then you are more in a song that area. If it is not the case and very rare disease and or if your disease after
Haddouk: The relevance of the animal, other than maybe your productivity of the model to predict activity or from other is not so good. And then you are more in high risk area.
Haddouk: For the consideration of the the first does in human, of course.
Haddouk: When you have you are, you have to deal with higher risk therapeutics. It is definitely more commander to use the maybe the minimum anticipated biological effect level approach because you will
Haddouk: Base your estimation. Based on this, and based on the knowledge you have after compound, rather than
Haddouk: For the standard therapeutics, usually the no idea is what you use when it's a new target or that particular area.
Haddouk: You, you have some understanding about the pharmacological active each of our compound, how it behaves in animals and in human and better, we will see the case example we will have later, the better understanding of this and will
Haddouk: Reduce it's rather recommended to use the the the MABEL for your decision making, rather than NOAEL or whatever the lowest those for this data.
Haddouk: And of course, if you are with high risk appetite compound.
Haddouk: Using their human healthy volunteers might not be possible, and it says most likely more likely that you will go for the patient population because we don't want to, to the benefit risk is more
Haddouk: Manageable ratio with the benefits risk ratio is more manageable for with the patients, then we're healthy volunteers or there is not real benefit, but all the risks of the higher risk. The risk is the lowest view will have the possibility to go in healthy volunteers for that's compounds.
Haddouk: Of course, you have to use all in vitro and in vivo data include a receptor binding and almost more importantly the occupancy the concentration response relationship, the pK they in the relevant species for these considerations.
Haddouk: And applied appropriate safety factor and with specifically with the high risk therapeutics in NOAEL area. You might have seen to decrease to lower to starting dose after having applied the safety factor.
Haddouk: To take a more caution in escalating the
Haddouk: Doses during the human study
Haddouk: And also to to increase your safety monitoring, because you might not be in a position to better
Haddouk: Have a grip on what finding you might have because you are in gray zone don't have full understanding of what will happen there.
Haddouk: Okay.
Haddouk: For the case study here I have taken an example you
Haddouk: I'm sure you have already heard about it and for an first negative results for the non clinical species was
Haddouk: Afterwards after this
Haddouk: tragedy happens in fact was considered as non relevant
Haddouk: This is the case for what we call the Tegenero compound that company does not exist anymore. It's a German company. I think if I remember well and this was for the TGN 1412
Haddouk: This compound is the IgG4 or with the stimulatory mode of action on the set on the specific subset of cells, which are the regulatory T cells.
Haddouk: And
Haddouk: This molecule binds to the CD 28
Haddouk: Receptor and and and activates T cells without the need of the cell receptor and and it leads to Polycom T cell expansion and activation and increase of iron to production, that's typically what we call a super agonists.
Haddouk: And
Haddouk: Antagonists
Haddouk: This the compound was developed because it will start getting a B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, in which the T cells are deficient and the aim was  to expand that cell population.
Haddouk: And also for some autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis in which the T regulatory cells expansion might be beneficial.
Haddouk: So what happened in the 13th of March 2006 and there was a Phase one trial going in UK with six healthy volunteers.
Haddouk: Which who are treated with this compound and they end up having a near fatal systemic inflammatory immune response to what we typically call a cytokine storm
Haddouk: The clinical trial was composed of eight healthy volunteers made volunteers. The trial was randomized, double blind it and you have a placebo control group. So again, you had six and
Haddouk: Compound. TGN1412 treated healthy volunteers and two who are under placebo and the those escalation study. The first those was
Haddouk: Was quite low. It was 0.1 milligram per kg and the serious adverse reaction were observed on on the on the six
Haddouk: Compound treated the healthy volunteers.
Haddouk: So the questions to ask. In that case was this predictable and the possibly avoidable from the non clinical studies.
Haddouk: So there was a subsequent analysis of the data and this resulted in a very huge amount of investigation and work which which is called the DAF report.
Haddouk: They initial screening assessments, they find out that the starting those was based on the new idea of extrapolated from the
Haddouk: Repeaters cinema. Yes, monkey, which was tested the new idea was 50 milligrams per kilogram. And when you consider the scaling factor and the human equivalent dose
Haddouk: The safety margin, which was applied compared to the know again in monkey was more than 160 which was definitely six, which was six teen fold higher than the minimum recommended safety.
Haddouk: Margin of ten say it was well done that point.
Haddouk: Then you have
Haddouk: Some consideration for the affinity of the compound to the human and macac CD 28 and they had equal affinity in terms of binding.
Haddouk: They were many investigation run on the formulation which was used for the clinical trial because they wanted to exclude any
Haddouk: Consideration any but this is about the bad manufacturing of the compound contamination.
Haddouk: The compound was compliance with the product specific specification. The compound was free of any pro inflammatory contaminants, which could have resulted in this increase of inflammatory reaction. This cytokine control and
Haddouk: There was no specific concern about the formulation and based on the NOAEL and the safety margin. There was nothing which was alerting at that step. Therefore, the
Haddouk: MHRA which is the
Haddouk: Regulatory Agency in UK requested for an expert special group or to work on this Phase one trial and to investigate and more deeply the biological properties TGN1412 under the
Haddouk: Assessment took a few months when it's eight years and we will see later. And in fact, they realized for this that there was no information which was really projected for the plasma concentration in human the CD 28 receptor occupancy necessary for the desired pharmacological effect.
Haddouk: To have the T rex stimulation was missing. So there was no data on the expected receptor occupancy to have the desired pharmacological effect, though.
Haddouk: There is a lack of data there, and also for the pharmacological products are the effects in the first human in human are competent human volunteers.
Haddouk: To compare what it would be expected in human volunteers compared to patient. The patient population. There was no information on this and therefore the first conclusion was that the first inhuman was not placed in any pharmacological context for the human population.
Haddouk: Following this, you can see here that many since that data before report, which was in December 2006 they were many work investigation research publication until 2013
Haddouk: Around this issue to try to understand why the mode of the non clinical study was not
Haddouk: predictive of what would happen in human knowing that the NOAEL was safety margin based on the way here was very high.
Haddouk: And knowing that with consideration also to the fact that the CD 28 has comparable affinity in the monkey and the human and so there was a need to to better understand where the issue stance.
Haddouk: And this took many years before so they they realized in fact that we are working on many individual adaptation for the model of cytokine.
Haddouk: And that cytokine induction in vitro they realized that for TGN1412 a pro inflammatory cytokine response in vitro was only generated when the PBMC
Haddouk: were present in a certain way within the invitro, what we call in, they will be mobilized under plastics surface to have a better exposure to them.
Haddouk: And in based on that assessment, they, they, after they have recalculated for the those which the concentration. All those which would have really
Haddouk: Connected to a pro inflammatory cytokines release they realized that in fact that the volunteers have been exposed to a nearly a maximum immuno stimulatory those
Haddouk: And the for the PBMC in from cynomolgus Monkey. They were not stimulated with the individual, even when they are immobilized on the on the surface plates.
Haddouk: In the place of the surface of the plates.
Haddouk: And that's was
Haddouk: I would say consistent with the fact that there was a feeler failure in having the effect detected in vitro.
Haddouk: And also in the in vivo monkey study, they haven't seen any effects or there was consistency between individual data in the monkey.
Haddouk: Compared to the invivo data . They tend the monkey whatever you use the previous assessment, which has been done, or the new
Haddouk: immobilization mode for the cytikine response in vitro and there was consistency there. However, for the human in vitro data now with this modification showed that there was a new middle stimulatory effect, which was observed in the human cells, but not in the monkey cells.
Haddouk: So they tried to go deeper in this underside understand why there is this difference in vitro between human and the monkey cells
Haddouk: So they realize that in fact the cytokine response stimulated by this TGN 1412 was not mediated by the same mechanism has auto therapeutic agents which are normally and easily detected with the standard way of assessing in vitro and TGN in fact,
Haddouk: Using the adapted method would reveal more activity. And in fact, it was demonstrated that
Haddouk: TG and 1412 stimulation of CD4 for a factory effectual memory T cells in the peripheral tissue tissue is the model faction of how regenerate the cytokine storm, which was different from the other
Haddouk: Therapeutic agents.
Haddouk: And then the question is why this was not observed in vitro and in vivo in the cynomolgus monkey because they could after was demonstrated in the in vitro for the human cells, but not for the monkeys.
Haddouk: In fact, simply because this affects our memory cells in the c monkeys. The CD4  factor memory says do not express the CD28 which which was not known before and access to before.
Haddouk: And therefore, since they're not they're not expressing the CD 28 they cannot be stimulated by by the TGN 1412
Haddouk: And therefore the trial failure due to the specific differences in CD 28 expressions CD4  memory cells come simply from the fact that the c monkey in that case is not pharmacologically relevant species for from this compound.
Haddouk: So since then, the depth report recommended that the calculation of the starting, those should be used.
Haddouk: On user relevant information. And in that case, the relevant information is not the NOAEL in the monkey, but rather the minimum anticipated biological effect level for the human finally from the individual adapted test for the cytokine release.
Haddouk: And the maybe the minimum anticipated biological effect level is assumption is that the modification when it is well known pre on to the first in human, it has to be considered in first and stands for specifically for the biologics
Haddouk: And the EMA Guideline was adapted later on after that trial and 2017 to to focus on the better understanding which is needed for the
Haddouk: pharmacology effects of the compound specially when you are in a novel traffic area and the use of the Mabel for for the for the extrapolation to to the human
Haddouk: Okay, thank you.
Haddouk: So if there is a hopper. I brought you some information additional information and knowledge around this non clinical safety package and if there are any questions that you might still have or want to clarify, please do not hesitate to get in touch to my email. Thank you a lot.
Haddouk: Bye bye.